BD-2029: Zeotap Symphony (#5184)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/customer_data_platform/zeotap/symphony.md

---
nav_title: Zeotap Symphony
description: "This reference article outlines the partnership between Braze and Zeotap, a next-generation customer data platform that provides identity resolution, insights, and enrichment."
page_type: partner
search_tag: Partner
page_order: 30
---

# Zoetap Symphony

The Braze and Zoetap Symphony integration allows you to create real-time orchestrations and run email and push notification campaigns.

- Send first and last names through Zeotap, based on which users can send personalized emails through Braze.
- Send custom events or a purchase event in real-time through Zeotap, based on which users can create campaign triggers within Braze to target their customers

{% alert note %}
To create email marketing campaigns, onboard the raw emails to Zeotap by mapping them to `Email Raw` in the Zeotap Catalogue.
{% endalert %}

## Prerequisites

| Requirement | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | Client Name | This is your client name for your Braze account. You can find it by navigating to the Braze Console, as shown in the screenshot below. |

Reviewer: Screenshot below?

> | Client Name | This is your client name for your Braze account. You can find it by navigating to the Braze Console, as shown in the screenshot below. |

| Braze REST API key | A Braze REST API key with `users.track` permissions. <br><br> This can be created within the **Braze Dashboard > Developer Console > REST API Key > Create New API Key**. |
| Instance | Your Braze instance can be obtained from your Braze onboarding manager or can be found on the [API overview page]({{site.baseurl}}/api/basics/#endpoints). |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3 .reset-td-br-4}

## Integration

This section provides information about the two methods you can integrate with Braze:

### Method 1
In this method, you have to perform the following tasks:
1. Integrate the Braze SDK on your website or app.
2. Integrate Braze with Zeotap through Symphony.

- `User traits` must be mapped to the respective Braze fields under the **Data To Send** tab. If you map the `Event` and `Purchase` attributes, it leads to the duplication of events within Braze.
- Map `External ID` to `User ID` configured while setting up the Braze SDK.

> With the integration successfully set as mentioned above, you can create email and push notification campaigns based on custom attributes sent to Braze through Symphony.

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove directional language

```suggestion
When the integration is successfully set, you can create email and push notification campaigns based on custom attributes sent to Braze through Symphony.
```

### Method 2
In this method, you can integrate Braze with Zeotap through Symphony.

- This method does not support the Braze UI features such as in-app messaging, News Feed, content cards, or push notifications.
- Zeotap recommends mapping the `hashed email` available in Zeotap Catalogue to the `External ID`.

> With the integration successfully set, as mentioned above, you can only create email campaigns based on custom attributes sent to Braze through Symphony.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the integration is successfully set, you can only create email campaigns based on custom attributes sent to Braze through Symphony.
```

## Data flow to Braze and supported identifiers

The data will flow from Zeotap to Braze using the [user track](https://www.braze.com/docs/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track/) API. The following points summarise the data flow:

1. Zeotap sends user profile attributes, custom attributes, custom events, and purchase fields.
2. You maps all the relevant Zeotap Catalogue fields to the Braze fields under the **Data To Send** tab.
3. The data is then uploaded to Braze.

> You can find details about the different attributes under the **Data To Send** section.

Reviewer: Maybe sub this for an anchor link?
```suggestion
You can find details about the different attributes under the [Data To Send](#data-to-send-tab) section.
```

#### Add new destination
Perform the following steps to add a new destination:
1. Click **Add New Destination**.
2. Search for **Braze**.
3. Add the **Client Name**, **API Key**, and **Instance** and save the destination.

The destination is created and made available under **Available Destinations**.

#### Add workflow-level inputs
After creating a destination, next, you have to add workflow-level inputs, as mentioned below.
1. Choose the destination from the list of available destinations using the search feature.
2. The **Client Name**, **API Key**, and **Instance** fields are automatically populated based on the value you entered while creating the destination.
3. Enter the **Audience Name** you want to create for this workflow node. This is sent as a **Custom Attribute** to Braze.
4. Complete the Catalog to Destination mapping under the **Data To Send** tab. You can find details on how to perform the mapping below.

#### Data to send tab

> The **Data To Send** tab allows the you to map the Zeotap Catalogue fields to the Braze fields that can be sent to Braze. The mapping can be done in one of the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Data To Send** tab allows you to map the Zeotap Catalogue fields to the Braze fields that can be sent to Braze. The mapping can be done in one of the following ways:
```

- **Static Mapping** - There are certain fields that Zeotap automatically maps to the relevant Braze fields like email, phone, first name, last name, and so on.<br>
- **Dropdown Selection** - Map the relevant fields ingested in Zeotap to the Braze fields provided in the dropdown menu.<br>![Various user traits set in Zeotap, such as language, city, birthday, and more.][3]{: style="max-width:70%;"}<br>
- **Custom Data Input** - Add custom data mapped to the relevant Zeotap field and send to Braze.<br>![Selecting "loyalty_points" as the user trait in Zeotap.][4]{: style="max-width:70%;"}

## Supported attributes
You can find details of all the Braze fields in this section.

| Braze Field | Mapping Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | External ID | Dropdown selection | This is the persistent `User Id` you defined by Braze to track users across devices and platforms. We recommend that you map `User ID` to `External ID`; otherwise, Zeotap may send email as a user alias.<br><br>Zeotap recommends that you map the `hashed email` available in the Zeotap Catalogue to the `External ID`.|

Reviewer: Should be capitalized?

```suggestion
| External ID | Dropdown selection | This is the persistent `User ID` you defined by Braze to track users across devices and platforms. We recommend that you map `User ID` to `External ID`; otherwise, Zeotap may send email as a user alias.<br><br>Zeotap recommends that you map the `hashed email` available in the Zeotap Catalogue to the `External ID`.|
```

| Price | Dropdown selection | • Price attribute for purchase action.<br>• Onboard the relevant attribute to the Zeotap Catalogue and map to it.<br><br>`Product ID`, `Currency`, and `Price` must be mapped mandatorily to capture purchase events in Braze. The purchase event cannot go through if any of the three is missed. |
| Quantity | Dropdown selection | • Quantity attribute for purchase action.<br>• Onboard the relevant attribute to the Zeotap Catalogue and map to it. |
| Country | Dropdown selection | Map to the `Country` Catalogue field you are onboarding. |
| City | Dropdown selection | Map to the `City` Catalogue field you are onboarding. |
| Language | Dropdown selection | • The accepted format is `ISO-639-1` standard (e.g., en).<br>• Onboard correctly formatted language and map to it. |
| Date of Birth | Dropdown selection | Map to the `Date of Birth` field you are onboarding. |
| Custom Attribute | Custom Data Input | Map any user attribute to a custom data input, which is then sent to Braze. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3 .reset-td-br-4}

## Viewing data on Braze console

> After you have mapped the relevant attributes to be sent and published in the workflow, the events start flowing to Braze based on the criteria defined. You can search by email ID or external ID on the Braze console. The user dashboard appears as shown below.

Reviewer: I think this last sentence is a bit extraneous but feel free to reject
```suggestion
After you have mapped the relevant attributes to be sent and published in the workflow, the events start flowing to Braze based on the criteria defined. You can search by email ID or external ID on the Braze console.
```

![][2]

> The screenshot shows that various attributes come under different sections of the user dashboard within Braze.

Reviewer: same comment here as above
```suggestion
Various attributes come under different sections of the user dashboard within Braze.
```

- The **Profile** tab contains the user attributes.
- The **Custom Attributes** tab contains the custom attributes defined by the user.
- The **Custom Events** tab contains the custom event defined by the user.
- The **Purchases** tab contains the purchases done over a period of time by the user.

## Campaign creation

> Users can create campaigns within Braze and activate users in real-time or based on the scheduled time. Campaigns can be triggered based on the actions performed by the user(custom event, purchase) or user attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can create campaigns within Braze and activate users in real-time or based on the scheduled time. Campaigns can be triggered based on the actions performed by the user (custom event, purchase) or user attributes.
```
